---
categories: [Feature, Obsolete]
---
# Feature: Squid-in-the-middle SSL Bump

- **Goal**: Enable ICAP inspection of SSL traffic.
- **Version**: 3.1 to 3.4.
- **Developer**:
    [AlexRousskov](/AlexRousskov),
    Christos Tsantilas
- **More**: See also [dynamic SSL certificate generation](/Features/DynamicSslCert)
    and [origin server certificate mimicking](/Features/MimicSslServerCert)
    features.

## Details

> :information_source:
    **This feature was replaced in Squid-3.5 by [peek-n-splice](/Features/SslPeekAndSplice)**

> :information_source:
    **This feature was replaced in Squid-3.3 by [server-first](/Features/BumpSslServerFirst)**


Squid-in-the-middle decryption and encryption of straight **CONNECT**
and transparently redirected SSL traffic, using configurable CA
certificates. While decrypted, the traffic can be analyzed, blocked, or
adapted using regular Squid features such as
[ICAP](/Features/ICAP) and [eCAP](/Features/eCAP).

> :warning:
    By default, most user agents will warn end-users about a possible
    man-in-the-middle attack.

> :x: **WARNING** :x:
    HTTPS was designed to give users an expectation of privacy and security.
    Decrypting HTTPS tunnels without user consent or knowledge may violate
    ethical norms and may be illegal in your jurisdiction. Squid decryption
    features described here and elsewhere are designed for deployment with
    user consent or, at the very least, in environments where decryption
    without consent is legal. These features also illustrate why users
    should be careful with trusting HTTPS connections and why the weakest
    link in the chain of HTTPS protections is rather fragile. Decrypting
    HTTPS tunnels constitutes a man-in-the-middle attack from the overall
    network security point of view. Attack tools are an equivalent of an
    atomic bomb in real world: Make sure you understand what you are doing
    and that your decision makers have enough information to make wise
    choices.

## Limitations

### Squid becomes responsible for handling server certificate validation errors

When an HTTP client receives the invalid origin server certificate it
can use agent features to handle validation errors. For example, many
browsers warn and allow the user to examine the invalid certificate and
optionally ignore the error for this or even future connections.

This powerful functionality is currently not available because Squid
makes the ultimate decision on whether to ignore the validation error.
The HTTP client always receives a valid certificate generated by Squid
and not the invalid certificate from the origin server. We are
considering adding code to mimic server certificate errors when
generating a fake certificate, giving back the user an option to examine
and bypass the error. Quality patches or sponsorships are welcomed.

> :x:
    to avoid this major limitation an upgrade to
    [Squid-3.3](/Releases/Squid-3.3)
    or later and use of the [origin server certificate
    mimicking](/Features/MimicSslServerCert)
    feature is strongly advised.

## Squid Configuration

Here is a sample squid.conf excerpt with SSL Bump-related options:

### Enabling SSL Bump

Example of how to configure the HTTP port to bump CONNECT requests

    http_port 3128 ssl-bump cert=/usr/local/squid3/etc/site_priv+pub.pem

    # Bumped requests have relative URLs so Squid has to use reverse proxy
    # or accelerator code. By default, that code denies direct forwarding.
    # The need for this option may disappear in the future.
    always_direct allow all

### Access Controls

[ssl_bump](http://www.squid-cache.org/Doc/config/ssl_bump) is used to
prevent some requests being *bumped*.

Example of how to avoid bumping requests to sites that
[Squid-3.1](/Releases/Squid-3.1)
or
[Squid-3.2](/Releases/Squid-3.2)
cannot proxy well:

    acl broken_sites dstdomain .example.com
    ssl_bump deny broken_sites
    ssl_bump allow all

The [ssl_bump](http://www.squid-cache.org/Doc/config/ssl_bump)
directive in
[Squid-3.3](/Releases/Squid-3.3)
has been updated to select between several bumping algorithms. The above
rules are now configured like this:

    acl broken_sites dstdomain .example.com
    ssl_bump none broken_sites
    ssl_bump client-first all

> :warning:
    However [Squid-3.3](/Releases/Squid-3.3)
    and later provide the *server-first* algorithm which can be used in
    place of *client-first* in the above rules and is better for bumping
    HTTPS as it avoided the problems below.

### Other settings

Certain certificate errors may occur which are not really problems. Such
as an internal site with self-signed certificates, or an internal domain
name for a site differing from its public certificate name.

**[Squid-3.3](/Releases/Squid-3.3)  and later**

The *server-first* bumping algorithm with [certificate
mimicing](/Features/MimicSslServerCert)
allows Squid to transparently pass on these flaws to the client browser
for a more accurate decision about safety to be made there.

**[Squid-3.1](/Releases/Squid-3.1) and [Squid-3.2](/Releases/Squid-3.2)**

The [sslproxy_cert_error](http://www.squid-cache.org/Doc/config/sslproxy_cert_error)
directive and the *ssl_error* ACL type allow these domains to be
accepted despite the certificate problems.

> :x:
    SECURITY WARNING: ignoring certificate errors is a security flaw.
    Doing it in a shared proxy is an extremely dangerous action. It
    should not be done lightly or for domains which you are not the
    authority owner (in which case please try fixing the certificate
    problem before doing this).

Allow access to website sending bad certificates

    # ignore errors with certain cites (very dangerous!)
    acl TrustedName url_regex ^https://weserve.badcerts.example.com/
    sslproxy_cert_error allow TrustedName
    sslproxy_cert_error deny all

Allow access to websites attempting to use certificates belonging to
another domain.

    # ignore certain certificate errors (very dangerous!)
    acl BadSite ssl_error SQUID_X509_V_ERR_DOMAIN_MISMATCH
    sslproxy_cert_error allow BadSite
    sslproxy_cert_error deny all

## Memory usage

> :warning:
    Warning: Unlike the rest of this page at the time of writing, this
    section applies to
    [Squid-3.3](/Releases/Squid-3.3)
    and possibly later code capable of [dynamic SSL certificate
    generation](/Features/DynamicSslCert)
    and [origin server certificate
    mimicking](/Features/MimicSslServerCert).
    The current section text is intended primarily for developers and
    early adopters facing excessive memory consumption in certain
    SslBump environments. These notes may be relocated elsewhere if a
    better location is found.

Current documentation is specific to bump-server-first configurations.

### Squid talking to SSL clients

If generate-host-certificates is "on" (which it is by default for
ssl-bump http\*_ports), then Squid uses one SSL context (SSL_CTX) per
true SSL server certificate (see ConnStateData::getSslContextStart).
That SSL context is configured with the fake certificate for the
corresponding SSL server. That fake certificate comes either from the
_security_file_certgen_
helper (older Squid call it ssl_crtd) or is generated ad hoc by Squid.
Fake certificates (or, to be precise, their contexts) may be cached in a
Squid context cache. The cache key includes subject name, common name
(CN), valid after, valid before, and other true certificate properties.
An SSL context storing a full certificate chain may consume a few MBs of
RAM. Since Squid usually talks to lots of servers, the total certificate
cache capacity may have to exceed several GBs to avoid capacity misses.
Please see
_dynamic_cert_mem_cache_size_
and Squid bug [4005](https://bugs.squid-cache.org/show_bug.cgi?id=4005)
on why the configured cache limit does not currently work as intended.
Squid does not empty its context cache during reconfiguration (although
contexts for no-longer-used or no-longer-caching ports are deleted in
recent Squids).

If generate-host-certificates is "off", then Squid uses one SSL context
(SSL_CTX) per
[http_port](http://www.squid-cache.org/Doc/config/http_port) /
[https_port](http://www.squid-cache.org/Doc/config/https_port) for all
transactions on that port, regardless of their destination (see
PortCfg::staticSslContext). That SSL context is configured using
[http_port](http://www.squid-cache.org/Doc/config/http_port) options.
This is done before Squid starts (or resumes) handling traffic so no
server certificate mimicking is possible with this context. The context
is recreated during reconfiguration. At the time of writing, there are
several bugs (with pending port leak patches) that may prevent this
cleanup in some Squid.

### Squid talking to SSL servers

When talking to SSL origin servers, Squid uses one SSL context for all
servers (or one SSL_CTX per peer if a
[cache_peer](http://www.squid-cache.org/Doc/config/cache_peer) is
used; see Config.ssl_client.sslContext and FwdState::initiateSSL()).
That SSL context is configured using various sslproxy_\* directives (or
[cache_peer](http://www.squid-cache.org/Doc/config/cache_peer) ssl\*
options) in squid.conf.

OpenSSL will automatically load and cache (inside the SSL context)
certificates and CRLs necessary to validate true server certificates
received by Squid. A single CRL may consume a few MBs. Since Squid
usually talks to lots of servers, the total internal OpenSSL cache size
may exceed several GBs. OpenSSL does not limit its internal cache size,
and there are no knobs to do so using OpenSSL API.

The SSL context used for talking directly to SSL servers is freed and
recreated on reconfigure. In theory, that should clear the internal
OpenSSL certificate and CRL cache when the last SSL connection using the
old context is gone. At the time of writing, there are several bugs
(with pending patches) that may prevent this cleanup in some Squids.
