= Response Terminology =

This page describes different kinds of responses (and their sources) Squid deals with. It may be useful to keep this information in mind when using reply-related format codes (such as '<h').

== Details ==

The diagram, outlined below, helps to understand various response sources and their relation to Squid subsystems (''client'' and ''server''):
 
{{{
client <-- (sent) -- Squid server <-- (received) -- post-cache RESPMOD adaptation service(s) <-- Squid client <-- (virgin) -- origin server or cache peer
client <-- (sent) -- Squid server <-- (received) -- Squid client <-- (virgin) -- origin server or cache peer
client <-- (sent) -- Squid server <-- (received) -- cache
client <-- (sent) -- Squid server <-- (received) -- error generator
client <-- (sent) -- Squid server <-- (received) -- pre-cache REQMOD request satisfaction service
}}}

Here is the list of reply categories with explanation:

* '''received''':
a response received by Squid from sources such as origin servers, cache peers, adaptation services, and cache store. Another possible source of received replies is a pre-cache REQMOD adaptation service working in a request satisfaction mode. Unless restricted further, received replies include both interim and final responses.

* '''sent''' : A response that was massaged (e.g., by http_reply_access rules) and forwarded by the Squid server to a Squid client. Most sent replies come from received responses that were adjusted for Squid client use. Note that this category includes also responses that were meant to be sent but could not be (fully) written to the network due to exceptional circumstances such as an unexpected client connection termination.

* '''adapted''': A response received from a RESPMOD adaptation service (eCAP or ICAP).

* '''(internally) generated''': A response message (usually an "error page") generated by Squid itself. Replies can be generated pre- and post-cache, before and after adaptation layers.

* '''final''': A response that ends the corresponding protocol transaction (e.g., HTTP 200 OK).

* '''interim''': Not a final reply (e.g., HTTP 100 Continue).
