---
categories: ConfigExample
---
# Linux traffic Interception at source using DNAT

**Warning**: Any example presented here is provided "as-is" with no
support or guarantee of suitability. If you have any further questions
about these examples please email the squid-users mailing list.

## Outline

  - ⚠️
    WARNING: Using NAT interception is not recommended other than as a
    final backup to other systems. There are other methods such as
    [Proxy
    WPAD/PAC](/Technology/WPAD),
    linux http_proxy environment variable, and windows policy
    enforcement of browser config. All of which are just as effective
    and encounter less problems when multiple clients are involved.

This configuration is to use NAT to Intercept web requests generated by
other software running on the same machine as Squid without any kind of
client application configuration or proxy support. It is extremely
intrusive and not applicable unless full control is had over the client
machine (ie rogue application server).

**NOTE:** NAT configuration will only work when used **on the squid
box**. This is required to perform intercept accurately and securely. To
intercept from a gateway machine and direct traffic at a separate squid
box use [policy
routing](/ConfigExamples/Intercept/IptablesPolicyRoute).

## iptables configuration

  - ⚠️
    Replace **SQUIDIP** with the public IP which squid may use for its
    listening port and outbound connections.
    
    ℹ️
    You may also need to replace "squid" UID with the
    [cache_effective_user](http://www.squid-cache.org/Doc/config/cache_effective_user)
    account Squid runs as. This may be using a built-in default of
    "nobody", "squid", or "proxy" depending on your operating system.

<!-- end list -->

    iptables -t nat -A OUTPUT --match owner --uid-owner squid -p tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
    
    iptables -t nat -A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -j DNAT --to-destination SQUIDIP:3129

## Squid Configuration File

You will need to configure squid to know the IP is being intercepted
like so:

    http_port 3129 transparent

  - ⚠️
    In Squid 3.1+ the *transparent* option has been split. Use
    **'intercept** to catch DNAT packets.

<!-- end list -->

    http_port 3129 intercept

[CategoryConfigExample](/CategoryConfigExample)
