---
categories: ConfigExample
---
# Linux traffic Interception with Squid and the Browser on the same box

  - *by Joshua N Pritikin*

**Warning**: Any example presented here is provided "as-is" with no
support or guarantee of suitability. If you have any further questions
about these examples please email the squid-users mailing list.

## Outline

To Intercept web requests transparently without any kind of client
configuration. When web traffic is rgenerated by the machine squid is
run on.

**NP:** for most non-Windows boxes setting the **http\_proxy**
environment variable (http\_proxy="[](http://SQUIDIP:3128/)") is a
preferred alternative to the below interception.

**NP:** other users have reported setting outgoing TOS and filtering on
it instead of process gid to also be effective.

## iptables configuration

  - ⚠️
    Replace **SQUIDIP** with the public IP(s) which squid may use for
    its listening port and outbound connections. Repeat each iptables
    line one per squid outbound IP.

<!-- end list -->

    iptables -t nat -F  # clear table
    
    # normal transparent proxy
    iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -p tcp -i eth0 --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-port 3127
    
    # handle connections on the same box (SQUIDIP is a loopback instance)
    gid=`id -g proxy`
    iptables -t nat -A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -m owner --gid-owner $gid -j ACCEPT
    iptables -t nat -A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -j DNAT --to-destination SQUIDIP:3127

## Squid Configuration File

You will need to configure squid to know the IP is being intercepted
like so:

    http_port 3127 transparent

  - ⚠️
    In Squid 3.1+ the *transparent* option has been split. Use
    **'intercept** to catch DNAT packets.

<!-- end list -->

    http_port 3127 intercept

[CategoryConfigExample](/CategoryConfigExample)
