---
categories: [ConfigExample]
---
# Variant I: Routed DMZ witch WCCPv2

*by Yuri Voinov*

## Configuring a Cisco IOS 15.5(3)M2 with WCCPv2 using ISR G2 router

### Outline

This configuration passes HTTP/HTTPS traffic (both port 80 and 443) over
[WCCPv2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Cache_Communication_Protocol)
to proxy box for handling. It is expected the that the box will contain
squid 3.x/4.x for processing the traffic.

The routers runs Cisco IOS Software, Version 15.5(3)M2, with SECURITYK9
and DATAK9 technology packs activated and have two physical interfaces -
GigabitEthernet0/0 which connected to LAN switch, and GigabitEthernet0/1
(IP 192.168.200.2) connected to DMZ with proxy. Proxy has IP
192.168.200.3 in this example. WCCPv2 configured on router 2911.

![Network scheme](/assets/images/network-scheme.png)

Router has both router/switch functionality, so we can use both GRE/L2
redirection methods.

> :information_source:
    Note: Beware - you must have NAT configured on your squid's box, and
    you must have squid built with OS-specific NAT support.

> :information_source:
    Note: When using managed switch in DMZ, be sure proxy box port in
    the same VLAN/has the same encapsulation as router port with WCCP
    activated. Otherwise router cannot do WCCP handshake with proxy.

### Cisco IOS 15.5(3)M2 router

    !
    ip cef
    ip wccp web-cache redirect-list WCCP_ACCESS
    ip wccp 70 redirect-list WCCP_ACCESS
    no ipv6 cef
    !
    !
    !
    interface GigabitEthernet0/1
     ip address 192.168.200.2 255.255.255.0
     ip wccp web-cache redirect out
     ip wccp 70 redirect out
    !
    !
    ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 192.168.200.1
    !
    ip access-list extended WCCP_ACCESS
     remark ACL for HTTP/HTTPS
     remark Squid proxies bypass WCCP
     deny   ip host 192.168.200.3 any
     remark LAN clients proxy port 80/443
     permit tcp 192.168.0.0 0.0.255.255 any eq www 443
     remark all others bypass WCCP
     deny   ip any any
    !
    !

> :information_source:
    Note: ip wccp web-cache can redirect only HTTP (port 80), so to
    redirect HTTPS we create another dynamic wccp-service 70 (in Cisco
    WCCP documentation this number dedicated to HTTPS. In general,
    number in range 1-254, it does not matter, but remember it to
    specify in squid config). Also remember, SECURITYK9/DATAK9
    technology packs need to be activated only in case HTTPS
    interception. They are not used for only HTTP redirection.

Also beware, when proxy is stopped - all HTTP/HTTPS traffic bypass it
and passthrough default route to next hop (or last resort gateway).

### Squid HTTP/HTTPS WCCPv2 configuration

    # WCCPv2 parameters
    wccp2_router 192.168.200.2
    wccp2_forwarding_method l2
    wccp2_return_method l2
    wccp2_rebuild_wait off
    wccp2_service standard 0
    wccp2_service dynamic 70
    wccp2_service_info 70 protocol=tcp flags=dst_ip_hash,src_ip_alt_hash,src_port_alt_hash priority=231 ports=443

> :information_source:
    Note: Squid must be built with WCCPv2 support.

> :information_source:
    Note: Squid box has configured default router pointed to
    192.168.200.1 (Ge0/1 on 2901) - last resort gateway.

> :information_source:
    Note: This example uses L2 redirecting (for OSes without native GRE
    support). Beware, wccp2_rebuild_wait sends "Here I am" message to
    router when proxy is ready to serve requests, without cache
    rebuilding complere. Also, both - router and proxy - uses port
    2048/udp to communicate with WCCP. So, this port must be open in
    firewalls. The most important: When using l2 redirection, both -
    WCCP-enabled router port and proxy - must share the same L2 network
    segment.

> :information_source:
    Note: If your choose GRE for communication with router and proxy,
    remember: you must have configured GRE on your proxy box\!

#### Security

To avoid denial-of-service attacks, you can enforce authentication
between proxy(proxies) and router. To do that you need to setup WCCP
services on router using passwords:

    ip wccp web-cache redirect-list WCCP_ACCESS password 0 foo123
    ip wccp 70 redirect-list WCCP_ACCESS password 0 bar456

If your router has service password-encryption enabled (to do that you
need to apply next command in router global configuration):

    service password-encryption

after defining your WCCP services on router, passwords will be
encrypted:

    ip wccp web-cache redirect-list WCCP_ACCESS password 7 0600002E1D1C5A
    ip wccp 70 redirect-list WCCP_ACCESS password 7 121B0405465E5A

Then change WCCP service definitions in squid.conf:

    #       MD5 service authentication can be enabled by adding
    #       "password=<password>" to the end of this service declaration.
    wccp2_service standard 0 password=foo123
    wccp2_service dynamic 70 password=bar456

Then restart squid and check redirection is working.

> :information_source:
    Note: Beware your squid.conf contains **any** passwords in
    plain-text\! Protect it as by as protect proxy box from unauthorized
    access\!


### QUIC/SPDY protocol blocking

> :information_source:
    Note: In most modern installations you may want (and you must) to
    block alternate protocols: SPDY and/or QUIC. To do that, please use
    **[this
    instructions](http://wiki.squid-cache.org/KnowledgeBase/Block%20QUIC%20protocol)**.

### Conclusion

This configuration example used on Cisco 2911 with Squid 3.x/4.x. As you
can see, you can configure your environment for different ports
interception.

> :information_source:
    Note: **Performance** is more better against PBR (route-map), WCCP
    uses less CPU on Cisco's devices. So, WCCP is preferable against
    route-map. Also note, l2 redirection has hardware support and less
    overhead, than gre, which has only software processing (on CPU).

> :information_source:
    Note: This configuration was tested and fully operated on Cisco iOS
    versions 15.4(1)T, 15.4(3)M, 15.5(1)T, 15.5(2)T1, 15.5(3)M,
    15.5(3)M2, 15.6(2)T, 15.6(2)T1, 15.6(3)M.
    :+1:
    :+1:
    :+1:

# Variant II: Switch L3 as WCCPv2 router

- *by Yuri Voinov and Svyatoslav Voinov*

## Configuring a Cisco IOS 15.0(2)SE9 with WCCPv2 using aggregation switch

### Outline

This configuration passes HTTP/HTTPS traffic (both port 80 and 443) from
switch L3 over
[WCCPv2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Cache_Communication_Protocol)
to proxy box for handling. It is expected the that the box will contain
squid 3.x/4.x for processing the traffic.

In this example uses Cisco 3750 aggregation switch in L3 mode as WCCPv2
router. The switch runs Cisco IOS Software, with appropriate version, in
this example Version 15.0(2)SE9, with IPSERVICEK9 technology pack and
has physical 1 Gbps interfaces. Proxy has two aggregated ports, IP's
192.168.201.10 (2 Gbps aggregate, aggr1) and 192.168.201.11 (4 Gbps
aggregate, aggr2) in this example. WCCPv2 uses L2 redirection with
assignment method **mask**. Switch only support WCCP "IN" redirection.

![Network scheme 2](/assets/images/network-scheme2.png)

### Cisco IOS 15.0(2)SE9 switch

    ip routing

    ip wccp source-interface Vlan201
    ip wccp web-cache redirect-list WCCP_ACCESS
    ip wccp 70 redirect-list WCCP_ACCESS

    interface GigabitEthernet1/0/15
     no switchport
     ip address 192.168.200.4 255.255.255.0

    interface Vlan201
     ip address 192.168.201.1 255.255.255.0
     ip wccp web-cache redirect in
     ip wccp 70 redirect in

    ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 192.168.200.1

    ip access-list extended WCCP_ACCESS
     remark ACL for HTTP/HTTPS
     remark Squid proxies bypass WCCP
     deny   ip host 192.168.201.10 any
     deny   ip host 192.168.201.11 any
     remark LAN clients proxy port 80/443
     permit tcp 192.168.0.0 0.0.255.255 any eq www 443
     remark all others bypass WCCP
     deny   ip any any

> :information_source:
    Note: "WCCP is supported only on the SDM templates that support PBR:
    access, routing, and dual IPv4/v6 routing." (from Cisco
    documentation)

### Squid HTTP/HTTPS WCCPv2 configuration

    # -------------------------------------
    # WCCPv2 parameters
    # -------------------------------------
    wccp2_router 192.168.201.1
    wccp2_forwarding_method l2
    wccp2_return_method l2
    wccp2_rebuild_wait off
    wccp2_service standard 0
    wccp2_service dynamic 70
    wccp2_service_info 70 protocol=tcp flags=dst_ip_hash,src_ip_alt_hash,src_port_alt_hash priority=231 ports=443
    # Cisco Routers uses hash (default), switches - mask
    wccp2_assignment_method mask

    balance_on_multiple_ip on

> :information_source:
    Note: As usual, it's expected your Squid already configured with
    HTTP and HTTPS ports.

#### Security

> :information_source:
    Note: When using authenticated WCCP, like previous example, please
    note, Cisco equipement has passwork length limit (no more than 8
    symbols on routers and most switches) and password strength limit -
    you can use only letters and numbers. Also was discovered additional
    password length limit on switches like 3750 with some old iOS, in
    this cases you'll be forced to reduce password length to 6-7
    symbols.

### Conclusion

This configuration example used on Cisco 3750 aggregation switch with
Squid 3.x/4.x. As you can see, you can configure your environment for
different ports interception.

> :information_source:
    Note: Initial setup was created, tested and fully operated on switch
    WS-C3750G-16TD-S with iOS 12.2(55)SE10 IPSERVICEK9 with Squid
    3.5.19.
    :+1:

> :information_source:
    Note: This configuration was tested and fully operated on Cisco iOS
    version 15.0(2)SE9 on appropriate switch (see next note).

> :warning:
    Be **VERY CAREFUL**: Cisco 3750 series has much submodels, not
    at all compatible with iOS 15.x. Partially, C3750G-16TD-S can run
    iOS 12.2(55)SE series only. Read [Cisco Release
    Notes](http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/switches/lan/catalyst3750/software/release/15-0_2_se/release/notes/OL25301.html)
    first when choose iOS release. Quote from: " Not all Catalyst 3750
    and 3560 switches can run this release. These models are not
    supported in Cisco IOS Release 12.2(58)SE1 and later: WS-C3560-24TS,
    WS-C3560-24PS. WS-C3560-48PS, WS-C3560-48TS, WS-C3750-24PS,
    WS-C3750-24TS, WS-C3750-48PS, WS-C3750-48TS, WS-3750G-24T,
    WS-C3750G-12S, WS-C3750G-24TS, WS-C3750G-16TD. For ongoing
    maintenance rebuilds for these models, use Cisco IOS Release
    12.2(55)SE and later (SE1, SE2, and so on)." Also note, WCCP on this
    series of switches are supported starting from 12.2(37)SE iOS.

> :information_source:
    Note: Against Variant I, switches hardware accelerated redirections
    don't shown in **sho ip wccp** command output. Check redirection
    work via Squid's access.log.

# Variant III: Switched ISR G2 router with WCCPv2

- *by Yuri Voinov and Svyatoslav Voinov*

## Configuring a Cisco IOS 15.5(3)M2 with WCCPv2 using switched ISR G2 router with convergent switch board

### Outline

This configuration passes HTTP/HTTPS traffic (both port 80 and 443) over
[WCCPv2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Cache_Communication_Protocol)
to proxy box for handling. It is expected the that the box will contain
squid 3.x/4.x for processing the traffic.

The routers runs Cisco IOS Software, Version 15.5(3)M2, with SECURITYK9
and DATAK9 technology packs activated. Router contains convergent switch
board with four 100 Mbps or 1 Gbps ports. WCCPv2 configured on router
2911.

![Network scheme 3](/assets/images/network-scheme3.png)

### Cisco IOS 15.5(3)M2 router

    !
    ip dhcp pool 100
     network 192.168.100.0 255.255.255.0
     default-router 192.168.100.1
     dns-server 192.168.100.1
     lease 30
    !
    ip dhcp pool 101
     network 192.168.101.0 255.255.255.0
     default-router 192.168.101.1
     dns-server 192.168.101.1
     lease 30
    !
    !
    ip cef
    ip wccp source-interface Vlan201
    no ipv6 cef
    !
    !
    interface FastEthernet0/0/0
     switchport access vlan 201
     no ip address
    !
    interface FastEthernet0/0/1
     switchport access vlan 201
     no ip address
    !
    interface FastEthernet0/0/2
     switchport mode trunk
     no ip address
    !
    interface FastEthernet0/0/3
     switchport access vlan 100
     no ip address
    !
    !
    interface Vlan100
     ip address 192.168.100.1 255.255.255.0
     ip wccp web-cache redirect in
     ip wccp 70 redirect in
     ip nat inside
     ip virtual-reassembly in
    !
    interface Vlan101
     ip address 192.168.101.1 255.255.255.0
     ip wccp web-cache redirect in
     ip wccp 70 redirect in
     ip nat inside
     ip virtual-reassembly in
    !
    interface Vlan201
     ip address 192.168.201.1 255.255.255.0
     ip wccp web-cache redirect in
     ip wccp 70 redirect in
     ip nat inside
     ip virtual-reassembly in
    !
    ip nat inside source list NAT interface GigabitEthernet0/1 overload
    ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 GigabitEthernet0/1 EXTERNAL_ISP_IP
    !
    ip access-list extended WCCP_ACCESS
     remark ACL for HTTP/HTTPS
     remark Squid proxies bypass WCCP
     deny   ip host 192.168.201.10 any
     remark LAN clients proxy port 80/443
     permit tcp 192.168.0.0 0.0.255.255 any eq www 443
    !

> :information_source:
    Note: Whenever clients and proxy connected via switch module, router
    uses **hash** assignment method itself.

### Squid HTTP/HTTPS WCCPv2 configuration

    # -------------------------------------
    # WCCPv2 parameters
    # -------------------------------------
    wccp2_router 192.168.201.1
    wccp2_forwarding_method l2
    wccp2_return_method l2
    wccp2_rebuild_wait off
    wccp2_service standard 0
    wccp2_service dynamic 70
    wccp2_service_info 70 protocol=tcp flags=dst_ip_hash,src_ip_alt_hash,src_port_alt_hash priority=231 ports=443
    # Cisco Routers uses hash (default), switches - mask
    wccp2_assignment_method hash

#### Security

> :information_source:
    Note: You can use authenticated WCCP like first example.

### Conclusion

This configuration example uses switched ISR-G2 2911 router as central
insfrastructure device. You can define as many client vlans as you
required using access switches downstream infrastructure, and: on port
Gi0/1 need to configure closed firewall with NAT due to security
reasons.

# Variant IV: VRF with WCCPv2

- *by Yuri Voinov and Svyatoslav Voinov*

## Outline

This configuration passes HTTP/HTTPS traffic (both port 80 and 443) from
[VRF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_routing_and_forwarding)-enabled
router over
[WCCPv2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Cache_Communication_Protocol)
to proxy box for handling. It is expected the that the box will contain
squid 3.x/4.x for processing the traffic. You can have many VRF routers
(on [MPLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiprotocol_Label_Switching)
router box) with the as many proxy boxes as you wish, for example, in
ISP.
