Describe EliezerCroitoru/Drafts/DynamonicContent here.

# Demonic Content on the 21 centuary

  - **Status**: 10%.

  - **Version**: 0.1

  - **Writter**: [Eliezer
    Croitoru](/Eliezer%20Croitoru)

## Prolog

In the 20th centuary the internet was developed based on the need to
exchange information and contact two remote places Instantaneously.
Until not long ago it was something that no everybody could afford to
themself and was considered a luxury item. Little by little the sea bed
was taken over by more and more cables. It started with a low speed
cables and with them took little by little the luxury item from the
Ferrari and Porsche level to a daily necessity one. Now the internet is
becomming dynamic.

## What is dynamic content?

There are many ways to see the dynamic nature of the internet. Every day
we can lookup in an intranet or the internet different content and see
how the content is being changed. You throw a "click" on a mouse,
keyboard or any other humen interface and you see something that was not
there a second ago. It's like there is a deamon inside the little
"magic" box and you interact with it.

For a kid the description might be like that 1 or 2 houndreed years ago
but not these days. Every kid in the current world knows or atleast
belive that there a cause behind this "demonic" action and by a human in
most cases. This is where the right and wrong are complexing the issue.
It is true that for everything is being done by some humen somewhere in
the world. This human that have built the machine or the human who
programed this machine. Each and every human in the proccess of creating
youtube is part of this "demonic" box. Youtube is a very usefull tool
for everyday usage. Some would call it a good tool and others will curse
it like any other invention. Youtube is only one example for many
computer based systems that are very complex for the technical human but
not for a kid.

Indeed we can call it "demonic" becuase not everyone can understand the
complexity of these systems. They do exists and was programmed by some
developers and sysadmins. There are humans and they have a very deep
knowledge on the complexity of the task and this task force. They 100%
can take such a BSD\\LINUX rated task and use all the pieces together.
This task which requires lots of design and engineering shows that
humans have lots power in their hands. Every kid can tell these days
that the "dynamic content" age is here.

## Why "Demonic"?

Sometimes People describe things that they cannot make sense of
"demonic" or "magically" and which in most cases are wrong\! The
internet is based on lot's of electrical machines such as routers,
switches, servers and mainframes. All these compute machines can store
and proccess lots of data that gets in and spit out something as a
response. No it has no powers and will never be superior to a human.
There is however the option to make a human believe like any sales man.
If the sales man will put his words in a way that the client will like,
he will probably think about buying. It's not guarteed that the client
will buy and in most cases people have the education to understand that
a sales man does it's job and it's to sale. Indeed to sale something to
someone when he doesn't need it can actually might not considered a law
crime. When this happen the sales man is a deamon and the product will
be demonic.

## What? Why? How? "Dynamic Content"

The main thing with dynamic content is that it's responding to something
from memory. We can look at netflix or hulu that are avaliable only in
specific parts of the world as a live example. The machine has in the
memory something and reacts accordingly.

The above is only a simple example of the idea behind dynamic content.
To demstrate what information can be extracted you can look at: - whats
my ip sites. - Can you run it sites - news sites - dns servers responses

Each and every one of these systems\\machines have their own "DATABASE"
that they are using to look on your IP and in some cases your PC. Indeed
these are demonic machines but they with all their powers it's only a
machine and it will always will be limited to some extent and even a
hacking kid can beat them.

Sometimes these sites contains "demoinc content" such as malware or
autogenerated "blob" documents as a husle for fake news or software.
Some good and some are bad.

## Real world example for malware you can see and feel

Some sites offers a software download while they do not provide the
original EXE file. Others offer content that do not really exists and
provide you with a false driver or text file.

Imagine you are reading a book inside a tablet or a cell phone and
suddely the screen pops you some message "low battery". What would a 100
years old human will think for the first time seen it? What would a 2
years old kid will think?

In my youth I have seen some kids running pranks using a computer and
was unsure what to do. Once of these pranks was a "virus" that makes a
directory to be linked recursivly to root(aka "/") causing all sort of
weird things to a DOS system. Not everyone could have done this but it
happen to computers once or twice. At the time I had couple choices what
to do in order to take care of the issue: - reformat the 80MB drive. -
ask a pc expert to fix it. - ignore it and use the PC as it is.

In my case it was a very simple PC, expensive but not work related.
Eventually I started by askning the nearby adults about the issue. Fast
enough the answer was that a PC expert will probably choose the same
path as me, reformat the drive and install a new antivirus. Later I had
lot's of expirence with malware and PC in general and I have learned
that in many cases the option to ask somebody else is not just an option
but one of the good things that we humans have in common. It's the same
if we are sitting as a sysadmin behind the wheel of the machine or as
the client alongside the driver.
